---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly essay #15"
date:   2023-05-01 13:00:00 -0600
author: "Alondra Galvan"
tags:
categories: weekly-essay
---


Last week I started working on the "module.computer-science-fundamentals". From my perspective, two of the most remarkable objectives of this activity are about reviewing computer science and improving our technical skills. 

Right now I am still in the beginning of getting my Java Backend Developer track on the Hyperskill platform. I liked this platform since it was designed to learn theory and then practice it. Most of the time, learning platforms consist of videos, some lectures and then a test about all the topics. My learning style is more about reading than watching a video. This is specifically because I like to take notes. As I mentioned, I am still at the beginning, or at least that is how I feel. Last week was more about reviewing the Java basics. At this point, I should be able to say that I master those topics. But, as any programmer, I surprise myself googling some basic stuff sometimes when developing a project. So, I think that reviewing the basics is always worth it, but I have not been taking notes at a detailed point, since I am familiar with the concepts and topics. Besides, some programming topics do not go along with notes, or, to be honest, I rarely would look at those notes. Sometimes practicing is way more util.

For my experience in the apprentice program, I would have liked to have this module earlier, before the to-do list project. I can still benefit from this module because I will be learning new stuff and reviewing topics is useful. But (the objectives that I remarked before) reviewing computer science and improving our technical skills, for me, seemed even more convenient at an earlier stage.

I have expectations from this activity since it looks as I'll be using this knowledge very soon for developing a new project (another breakable toy) but also in the long term in my professional life; learning will be always a constant but the fundamentals have to be solid to actually continue learning.
