---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly essay #12"
date:   2023-04-10 12:00:00 -0600
author: "Alondra Galvan"
tags:
categories: weekly-essay
---

This week I have been learning about the open-source community and, of course, I have kept working on my Java skills, to be more comfortable with the language. I already knew about the philosophy behind open-source software. However, I only knew about it because of hearing of the history behind it; getting to actually collaborate on a project is different. For the first part of the open-source module, I didn’t make a major contribution, but I helped to translate some parts of the documentation to Spanish and also suggested changes to the "About" section in a GitHub repo. 

The feeling of collaborating with strangers in order to improve a project is nice. I know that fixing typos, translating or similar stuff can be seen as just little contributions (it is kind of like I see it), but they are important contributions that need to be made, and, in an OSS project, it can be me! I am happy to be able to help and, in the end, it can be a small contribution, but it is part of a bigger project.

To be more specific, this week I worked on the translation of texts on Django documentation, which is a Python framework. Django has a GitHub profile and it has a project for its documentation's translation. This project has a branch for each stable Django version; currently, only stable documentation versions are translated.
Even though this repository is on GitHub, the translation is made on another platform, Transifex.
I also opened an issue suggesting some changes to the 'About' of that repository), it got accepted but someone else made the changes; I didn’t have the chance to actually do the PR by myself.

I am still looking for another project to work on for the second part of the module; I will work on that this upcoming week.

On the other hand, I have been learning and trying some methods to focus and be more productive. My current approach to organizing my work is usually effective, but I am looking for something different or a new way to be more productive. This is more for personal growth, but it can clearly help me to grow in my professional path. 


***
