---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly Essay #5"
date:   2023-02-20 17:02:56 -0600
author: "Alondra Galvan"
tags:
categories: weekly-essay

---

It is been about a month since I started the apprentice program. This week was a calm one. On Monday, I and my batch mates finished the final details of the technical log for last week's assignment. After that, we did not receive any new instructions until Friday. 

In the meantime, I started a Cybersecurity course that Encora sent to all of the employees. I also started reading "C++ Coding Standards: 101 rules, guidelines, and best practices" by Herb Sutter Andrei. My interest in this book is more related to improve a personal/scholarly project rather than related to the Apprentice Program. 

On Friday I received a new assignment. This seems to be the most elaborated assignment until now. I am not familiar with some of the resources that I will need to implement. I am scared and excited about it because I will be almost totally out of my comfort zone in this project. I decided to start with remembering Java. It is been a while since I last coded in Java. I still remember most of the basics, but I think that I never made any sophisticated project in this language. I looked at the digital library that Encora has for its employees and I chose "Java for beginners. A simple start to Java" by Scott Sanderson. It feels easy to read and it is been helping me to remember and learn some stuff. Rather than just reading, I will start coding this week for this assignment. 

***
