---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly essay #23"
date:   2023-06-26 08:32:00 -0600
author: "Alondra Galvan"
categories: weekly-essay
---

What have I done this week? This week my team and I finally presented the final demo, I continued to learn about testing with the book “Mastering Software Testing with JUnit 5” by Boni Garcia and started a Selenium course of Coursera, I prepared for a Python mock interview and I attended a few workshops. Let me elaborate on each of those activities now:

As I mentioned before on pasts essays, the BAH project is an application that uses Java and Spring Boot on the back-end and React on the front-end with the main purpose of optimizing the registration and collection of donations for the food bank of Hermosillo. We were meant to present the final demo on June 19, but we had to reschedule for June 21. In most of the previous demos we had lots of feedback because of some mistakes and communication issues; sometimes (for me) staying motivated wasn’t the easiest thing in the world, but I found support in my team. This week, after the final demo, we kept improving some final details (such as adding missing unit tests and changing the details view to protect the information of users). But I noted that we were motivated.
Despite the obstacles during this project (like the team being reduced to almost half of the original size, and sometimes having to learn in record time to use some technologies and frameworks that some of us didn’t use before such as AWS for the deployment of the app and JUnit for tests and communication issues), I could say that I enjoyed a lot the project. Aside from the technical tools needed for the project, I learned a lot from it: to apply agile practices, the importance of testing, teamwork, communication and negotiation and what is expected from a developer to decide and what details are important to ask.

I started to read “Mastering Software Testing with JUnit 5” by Boni Garcia a couple of weeks ago; in order to apply unit tests as well as possible. Since we were almost done with it, this lecture went down on my priorities and this week I only read about one and a half chapters:
* JUnit 5 Standard Tests: I started this chapter last week, but I didn’t finish until this week. It contains examples for annotations (such as @Test to identify that a method is a test, @BeforeEach, @BeforeAll, @AfterEach, @AfterAll to indicate when and how to run certain methods taking as reference the tests and others that we actually used on the BAH project).
* Simplifying Testing With Advanced JUnit Features: This chapter explains some advanced annotations like @MethodSource to specify a method as a source of arguments, @ArgumentSource to specify a custom argument provider for tests and other annotations. The annotations in this chapter seem very useful in specific cases,  I'll keep in mind their existence in case I need them. 

I also continued with the "Selenium WebDriver with Python" course by Whizlabs in Coursera. I actually started this course the previous week, but I made most of the advances this week. This course was made for learning how to automate web browser interactions using Selenium WebDriver and Python. Selenium WebDriver is a framework that provides a programming interface to control web browsers, for users to automate browser actions, interact with web elements, navigate through web pages, and perform automated testing of web applications across multiple browsers and platforms. It is part of the Selenium suite (a suite of frameworks to automate web browser interactions for application testing). So far, I have covered the basics like installation and setting the environment and the SWD architecture.

As part of a technical assessment, I got a Python mock interview. Python is the programming language that I feel the most comfortable with. I have used it a lot in school for lots of courses (just to mention some of them: algorithms, machine learning, computational geometry, numerical methods and statics). Right now I am interested in learning more about Django and Flask (both are frameworks for web development in Python). But for this week, I reviewed a bit of the basics looking at some of the pages of the Python tutorial from w3schools. I asked the interviewer, Miguel Martínez, for advice for this interview and he recommended me to look at the Python Interview Guide on the Encora Mexico Hub (quoting from the hub, the hub is "a reliable repository of Encora Mexico’s internal content"). It was very helpful. That guide contains questions about databases, functional programming, object-oriented programming, data structures and algorithms (all Python oriented). I wrote the answers to the questions that I knew the answer and researched the ones that I didn’t. This exercise helped me to be more confident about the interview. It came up very well. I received feedback on researching duck typing and decorators, but overall, the interviewer said that I have a good understanding of the language.
As a complementary part of this interview, I also had a behavioral interview. The interviewer was Martin Cocoba. I wasn’t ready for this interview but it didn’t go too bad. I received feedback for the way I answered some of the questions as not saying "I guess" or "I believe". 

I attended the workshop: "What is SAFe and when should we apply it?". It covered what is SAFe; it stands for Scaled Agile Framework. It was the first time I heard about it. In general terms, it covers methods to scale and adapt the agile methodologies depending on the teams and their needs.

And... that’s it for the week. I'm looking forward to finishing the Selenium Course, the JUnit 5 book and attending some DevWeek talks (quoting from its official page: DevWeek is "A public, virtual event hosted by leading software engineers around the world", powered by Encora).
