---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly essay #21"
date:   2023-06-12 08:32:00 -0600
author: "Alondra Galvan"
categories: weekly-essay
---

This week I had various topics to work on. I worked on the BAH project with my team. But I also received feedback from the staff about being absent. They also suggested that I give myself a stack challenge.

Related to the BAH project (in general terms, it is an application that uses Java and Spring Boot on the back-end and React on the front-end), I researched about deployment and testing. About deployment, I have been reading about Amazon Web Services. At the beginning of the project, we considered different options to deploy the app, just like Vercel, Azure and AWS. As a result of our research and mentors' advice, we ended up deciding to use AWS. Back then, I focused on how to deploy the app. I was trying to follow tutorials, but I wasn't sure about what resources I was using. But this week I read about the available services of AWS (that my team is using or that we could have used instead), what they are and some notions of how it works; something more basic. Even though this is not useful for the deployment of the app (since this is already advanced by my teammates), I am reading it, to understand what is currently happening to the deployment. Due to our lack of experience in this topic, we have changed our minds about the used methods for it. We wanted to use GitHub actions, but it turned out to be more complicated than we thought. For now, we will try to keep it (more) simple. For the current purposes of the project, it will be enough. Right now my priority is the testing part. We committed a horrible mistake. We ignored the tests. We did not start the project from zero. It was initially developed about two years ago. The model of this project seems appropriate and maintainable, so we are working with it. However, it has no tests at all. Given that, we underestimated the importance of testing. In one of the recent demos, it was suggested by
 the mentors to add unit testing. I have been reading the book "Mastering Software Testing with JUnit 5" by Boni Garcia. For me, it seems like a good option to start learning about testing. I have also watched some videos about JUnit. Adding testing has been a bit of a challenge, but it is important to do it! As we do not have too much time left, we are doing unit testing, following what seems like a happy path (sometimes it is not too clear to me because of some implementations). Hopefully, it could be possible to do bottom-up to make integration testing. But it is not what we are aiming to, because of the time left.

On the other hand, I have been working on my soft skills. I was aware of some issues with it. But sometimes it is unclear for oneself. Receiving feedback had a motivating effect. I tried reading the book "Soft skills: The software developer's life manual" by John Z. Sonmez, Scot Hanselman and Robert Martin. I say "I tried" because it is a good book, it seems to have lots of helpful advice, but it seems to have a focus that is not the better for my problems. I also asked for help about it to someone else, I am excited about what he has to say. 

About a "stack challenge", I'll ask for a mock interview. But I am preparing for it. My main stack, Python, it is a language that I have used for different focuses for about 3 years now. I am reading about libraries that I have already used, just as pandas, keras, tensorflow and even about numpy. But next week I want to read about other libraries that I have barely used but are widely used. As a recommendation of a Python developer, I will also read about docker. 

Next week I will keep working on these topics!
