---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly essay #14"
date:   2023-04-24 17:00:00 -0600
author: "Alondra Galvan"
tags:
categories: weekly-essay
---

We have come to the end of the open-source software module this week. For the last weeks, I got introduced to the OSS, to its community and to contributing. I wanted some background besides the material I received for the module, so I looked up its history (roughly speaking); which I wasn’t too unfamiliar with.

However, the most interesting part, for me, was the part about contributing. I cannot say that it was easy. I faced some obstacles such as not finding how to contribute, interesting repositories being inactive for a long time and not trusting my Java knowledge/skills.
I had been having some personal issues that ended up interfering with my performance in this module. Less than 48 hours before the deadline, I am still not completely comfortable with my contributions. I dislike having this kind of issue; I hate it when it interferes with my professional/academic life. I always try to avoid it, no one likes this kind of situation. But I am human. However, I am working on it, I am committed to not repeating it.

I recognize that being a contributor to an OSS project could be very convenient for my portfolio. Being in the apprentice program motivated me to try it despite the difficulties. I would like to keep contributing to OSS projects, whether in the same repositories or new repositories, just for fun.

For this specific week, I would say that I learned more about GitHub and its tools to explore repositories and communicate with others on this platform.  I focused more on the repositories I was trying to contribute to; to understand them and look for solutions and/or complements to improve them. This week I had not too much time to learn new specific topics as in other weeks. But I am looking forward to the next module, where it seems like I will be able to learn a lot and formalize some knowledge on some topics that I know just superficially. 
