---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3"
date:   2023-02-06 15:00:56 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

This week was different from the first two weeks, where I attended onboarding meetings, read some articles and saw some videos. I consider that those weeks were enough to introduce me to Encora, but it seems like I will never stop learning in the Apprentice program. I am excited about it.

For this week and the next one, I will be working on solving some given problems at Google Code Jam in team (with my batch mates) and some other problems by myself. I started this blog. It is my first time using GitHub pages. I have been learning how to manage/edit this blog. To be more specific, the most remarkable things that I have learned about it, are part of the basics of html and some tricks that I did not know before about this platform.

The Google Code Jam problems have to be solved in four programming languages. Those programming languages I only have experience with Python and Java. And, since we are eight people in the 2023A batch, each one will submit two implementations, which, in my case, will be coded in Python. By this implementations I have not learned anything new for Python, I only used loops, lists, string methods and other few things that I learned before.

Since the assignments given during week 3 are thought to be done during two weeks, I am just in the middle of it. For now, everything has been going smoothly and I have not had blockers. I will keep working on those assignments.

* * *
